Rabindranath Tagore -Nobel Prize for Literature (1913) 

Tagore was born in Calcutta. He was the first recipient of this award from India. In the year 1913, Rabindranath Tagore was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature for his work "Gitanjali".He was one of greatest poets of India and the composer of national anthem of India. 


Sir Chandrasekhar Venkata Raman (C.V. Raman)-Nobel Prize for Physics (1930) 

C V Raman was born in Thiruvanaikkaval, in the Trichy district of Tamil Nadu. He was the first Asian scientist to win the Nobel Prize.he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1930 for his discovery of “RAMAN effect”.Raman effect is useful in the study of molecular energy levels, structure development, and multi component qualitative analysis. 

Mother Teresa (1910 – 1997) -Nobel Prize for peace (1979)

She was the recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize in the year 1979. This was in recognition for the path breaking efforts to help the poor and underprivileged people through the establishment of the Missionaries of Charity, Calcutta,India.



 
Dr. Amartya Sen – Nobel Prize for Economics (1998)

Amartya Sen was born in Bolpur, in West Bengal in 1933. He was honored with the Nobel Prize in 1988 for his work in Welfare economics. Sen is best known for his research on famines, his work on women-- the attention he has drawn to their unequal status in the developing world, and his calls for gender-specific aid programs.

Venkatraman Ramakrishnan –Nobel Prize for Chemistry (2009) 

Born in Chidambaram, Tamil Nadu in 1952.He was awarded Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2009. He is a structural biologist who received the Nobel Prize for his studies in the structure and function of the ribosome.

Dr. Har Gobind Khorana –Nobel Prize for Medicine and Physiology (1968)

He was born in 1922 in Raipur in Punjab of eastern Pakistan. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 1968 for producing the first man-made gene in his laboratory in the early seventies. His discovery won him the Nobel Prize sharing it with Marshall Nuremberg and Robert Holley for interpreting the genetic code and analyzing its function in protein synthesis.

Dr. Subramanyan Chandrasekhar – Nobel Prize for physics (1983)

He was born on October 19, 1910 in Lahore, India (now part of Pakistan) in a Tamil hindu family. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1983 for Physics. He was recognized for his theoretical studies of the physical processes of importance to the structure and evolution of stars.He received this award jointly with Wilfred Alfred Fowler for their collaborative research work. Chandrasekhar’s is also known as the nephew of another legendary scientist and Nobel laureate, Sir C.V. Raman. 

V.S. Naipaul – Nobel Prize for Literature (2001)

He was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 2001. Born to Indian parents in 1932 in Trinidad & Tobago.Naipaul was recognized for his extensive works in English Literature. He is well known not only for his indomitable command over the use of the English Language but also for his vivid and descriptive stories. 

Other Nobel Prize Laureates related to India

Sir Ronald Ross –Nobel Prize for Physiology (1902) 

He was a Scottish physician who was born in Almora in India in 1857. Though he finished his education in England, Ross had also spent a number of years in India while he was making progress in his search for his discovery of the malarial parasite and its prevention. He was awarded by Nobel prize in 1902 for his work on malaria. 

Rudyard Kipling –Nobel Prize for Literature (1907)

He was born in 1865 in Bombay. He is regarded as an innovator in the art of short stories. In 1907 Rudyard Kipling won the Nobel Prize in Literature for his original imagination and ideas as a writer of several literary works. He is best known for his book “The Jungle book” 

